[Clear the deck][1] is an integer sequence explorer developed by
[Dave Wilding][2] and named by [Anthony Chiu][3].

# The format of a deal
The simplest deal is a single number. For example, `5` means "deal 5 cards" and
`10` means "deal 10 cards". The deal `5^2` means "deal 5 cards twice", so is
equivalent to `10`, and `5^2-4` means "deal 5 cards twice, three times or four
times". To deal some cards an unspecified number of times just use a question
mark instead of a number. For example, `5^?` means "deal 5 cards as many times
as you like" and `5^1-?` means "deal 5 cards at least once".

To repeat a more complicated deal, such as `1^?`, first enclose the deal in
round brackets. For example, `(1^?)^2` means "deal as many cards as you like,
twice". Since `1^?` is an extremely useful deal, any number of consecutive dots
is interpreted as `(1^?)`, and therefore the previous example could also be
written as `...^2`.

Deals can be chained together by writing them one after the other. For example,
`5 10 1` means "deal 5 cards, then deal 10 cards, then deal 1 card", i.e., "deal
16 cards". The spaces are necessary in this case because otherwise the deal
would mean "deal 5101 cards" (which your browser would _not_ like!), but
sometimes you can get away without spaces: `...1...` means "deal as many cards
as you like, then deal 1 card, then deal as many cards as you like". If one of
the deals in your chain is more complicated than the deals described above then
you will need to enclose it in round brackets.

Finally, the word 'or' turns chains of deals into different possibilities within
the same deal. For example, `1... or 2` means "deal 1 card, then deal as many
cards as you like; or just deal 2 cards". Perhaps surprisingly, `5 or 5` doesn't
simply mean "deal 5 cards". Rather, it means "deal 5 cards to a person or deal 5
cards to a different person", or in other words, "deal 5 cards to one of 2
people". A simpler way to specify that a chain of deals should be directed at
one of __m__ &geq; 0 people is to put an asterisk between __m__ and the chain:
`2 * 5` is equivalent to `5 or 5`.

# How it works
1. Your deal is first parsed to make sure that it is syntactically valid. If it
isn't valid, the status displayed will be 'A__i__' for some __i__ &geq; 1,
meaning that the __i__<sup>th</sup> symbol in your deal is incorrect (or
missing). For example, `1^?^2` isn't a valid deal because `1^?` isn't enclosed
in round brackets.

2. Your deal is then transformed into a [finite-state machine][4] comprising an
integer [matrix][5] __M__, an integer [row vector][6] __u__ and an integer
[column vector][7] __v__. If the status displayed at this stage is 'B__j__' for
some __j__ &geq; 1 then your deal has been abandoned because it (or a part of
it) means "deal 0 cards to one of __j__ people as many times as you like", and
there are infinitely many ways to do this. For example, the syntactically valid
deals `0^?` and `...^?` give status 'B1' because they aren't mathematically
meaningful.

3. If your deal is meaningful then its sequence is generated by computing the
[matrix product][8] __u__ &middot; __M__<sup>__n__</sup> &middot; __v__ for each
__n__ &geq; 0. The final status displayed will be 'C__k__' where __k__ &geq; 1
is the size of the matrix __M__, so a small value of __k__ indicates that your
deal's sequence is being generated quickly. Because of the way the deal parser
works, it is usually most efficient to write your deal in the simplest looking
way. For example, the deal `1^20` gives status 'C40', whereas the equivalent
(and simpler) deal `20` only gives status 'C21'.

[1]: http://dpw.me/clear-the-deck/
[2]: https://github.com/dwilding
[3]: https://github.com/idno0001
[4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nondeterministic_finite_automaton
[5]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matrix_%28mathematics%29
[6]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Row_vector
[7]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Column_vector
[8]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matrix_multiplication
